Israeli officials say CIA director Bill
Burns has arrived in the country for
talks on the war on Gaza and the efforts
to secure the release of captives he's
expected to meet with prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu as well as senior
defense and intelligence officials John
hendren is with us live from Washington
DC and John of course CIA director Bill
Burns is one of a long list of US top
officials to visit Israel what does he
hope to
achieve
that's right Burns is just the latest Us
official to arrive in Israel we're not
seeing a lot of pictures because as the
intelligence Chief uh they don't take a
lot of pictures of him but uh officially
while the CIA says it doesn't comment on
the director's whereabouts a Us official
speaking on condition of unanimity says
he is there to visit a number of
countries in the Middle East and to talk
to world leaders and to talk to
intelligence officials and he's expected
to be discussing not just the situation
in Gaza but also captive negotiations uh
and make an effort to cooperate with
members of those countries including
Israel to to deter State and non-state
actors from widening that conflict and
he's expected to be there to reinforce
intelligence sharing you may recall that
the US is using Reaper drones over Gaza
to gather intelligence information so
the CIA would likely be involved in
analyzing and distributing that data um
for goals he's also probably going to be
pressing the same goals that we've seen
President Biden and Anthony blinkin the
Secretary of State uh press while he
they were in Israel and that is a pause
for Aid to go through to Gaza a more
targeted approach that would minimize
civilian casualties and an effort to
expand intelligent sharing between the
two countries there he's likely also to
go to Qatar where they'll be uh talking
about um trying to get those captives
out and also to Egypt which is key in
getting humanitarian Aid out of that
region so uh he's got a big portfolio
there but it's really very similar to
what we've seen other us officials press
all right for now John hendin live in
Washington DC many thanks for the update